chore: blogpost on first community call (#256)
coreruleset/website: content/blog/2025-01-30-first-crs-community-call.md

categories:
  - Blog
title: 'First CRS community call'
author: theseion
---

CRS is the leading open source WAF rule set and to a very large part this is thanks to our community who report problems with rules and tell us about real world issues they are experiencing. Unfortunately, CRS is also quite complex and first (or even second) contact can be quite daunting. While we constantly try to reduce the complexity, we also want make it easier for people to start working with CRS.

## Community Calls

We were recently inspired by the [SAMM project](https://owaspsamm.org), who regularly organize moderated video chats with their community, where they talk about project updates and answer questions. We think that this kind of interaction might help newcomers and might also interest more seasoned CRS users and we want to give it a shot. Our first community call, which will be a trial run, will take place on March 17 and will be moderated by former CRS co-leader Christian Folini (yes, he wrote [the book](https://www.feistyduck.com/books/modsecurity-handbook/)). We have the following program planned:
- CRS news users need to know
- How we build the rules
- Meet the devs and other users

> - Open space reserved for questions

Reviewer: I usually _hate_ using "you" and "your" in technical writing & comms, but in this instance we should hammer home that "this is _your community call_, we want to hear from _you_, tell us _your burning questions!_" etc…

> In the last segment, we want to give anyone the possibility to ask any questions, be it CRS basics like default configuration, advanced topics like rule exclusions, or questions about rule development and tooling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the last segment, we want to give you time to ask any questions, be it CRS basics like default configuration, advanced topics like rule exclusions, or questions about rule development and tooling.
```

## When And Where

{{< figure src="images/2025/community-call-2025-03-17.png" alt="Join the first CRS community call with Christian Folini" >}}

> The first community call will take place on **March 17, from 20:30 to 21:30 CET**. Head over to the [registration page]({{% ref "/registration.md" %}}) to grab the link to the call.

Reviewer: We should include that it's taking place at:
14:30 ET
19:30 UTC
in whatever format works best (in brackets somewhere, have a table somewhere, etc.)

Reviewer: Could simply say:
> …will take place on **March 17, from 20:30 to 21:30 CET** (19:30 UTC / 2:30 p.m. ET).

(I hate to mix 12 and 24 hour clocks, but I think any USian readers will more readily understand when that is.)
